in the last video we developed an
anomaly detection algorithm in this
video I'd like to talk about the process
of how to go about developing a specific
application of anomaly detection to a
problem and in particular there's a
focus on the problem of how to evaluate
an anomaly detection algorithm in
previous videos we had already talked
about the importance of real number
evaluation and just captures the idea
that when you're trying to develop a
learning algorithm for a specific
application you need to often make a lot
of choices when you're choosing what
features to use and then and so on and
making decisions about all of these
choices is often much easier if you have
a way to evaluate your learning
algorithm that just gives you back a
number so if you're trying to decide you
know I have an idea for one extra
feature do I include this feature or not
if you can run the algorithm with the
feature and run the applet without the
feature and just get back a number that
tells you you know did it improve or
worsen performance to add the speaker
then it gives you a much better way a
much simpler way to just soon would wish
to decide whether or not to include that
feature so in order to be able to
develop an anomaly detection system
quickly we it really helpful to have a
way of evaluating an anomaly detection
system in order to do this in order to
evaluate an anomaly detection system
we're actually going to assume that we
have some labeled data so so far we'll
be treating anomaly detection as an
unsupervised learning problem using
unlabeled data but if you have some
label data that specifies what are some
anomalous examples and what are some
non-anomalous examples then this is how
we actually think of as the standard way
of evaluating an anomaly detection
algorithm so taking the aircraft
engineer example game let's say that you
know you have some label data of a lot
of just a few anomalous examples of some
aircraft engines that were manufacture
in the past that turns out to be
anomalous if it turns out to be floral
to strange in some way that's how we
usually we also have some non-anomalous
examples of some perfectly okay examples
I'm going to use y equals zero to denote
the normal or the non-anomalous examples
and y equals wanted to know the
anomalous examples the process of
developing and evaluating an anomaly
detection algorithm is as follows
we're going to think of it as the
training set to talk about the cross
validation and test sets later but the
training is that we you should think of
this as though the unlabeled training
set and so this is a large collection of
normal non-anomalous and not anomalous
examples and usually we think of this as
being non anomalous but it is actually
okay even if a few anomalies slip into
your unlabeled training set and next
we're going to define a cross-validation
set and the test set with which to
evaluate a particular anomaly detection
algorithm so specifically for both the
cross validation and test sets we're
going to assume that you know we can
include a few examples in the
cross-validation set and the test set
that contain examples that are known to
be anomalous so the test set say will
have a few examples with y equals 1 that
corresponds to anomalous aircraft
engines so here's a specific example
let's say that altogether this isn't
data that we have we have manufactured
10,000 examples of engines that as far
as we know were perfectly normal
perfectly good aircraft engines and
again it turns out to be okay even if a
few flawed engine slips into this set of
10,000 is
okay but kind of assumed that the vast
majority of these 10,000 examples are
you know good normal
non-anomalous engines and let's say that
you know historically in however long
we've been running our manufacturing
plants let's say that we end up getting
features giving twenty floors or two the
anomalous engines as well and for pretty
typical application of anomaly detection
you know the number of known anomalies
example on status with y equals one we
may have anywhere from you know 20 to 50
it would be a pretty typical range of
examples number of examples that we have
with y plus one and usually we'll have a
much larger number of good examples
so given this data set a fairly typical
way to split it into the training set
cross-validation set and the test set
would be as follows let's take off 10000
goods aircraft engines and put 6,000 of
that into the unlabeled training set so
this is I'm calling this an unlabeled
training set but all of these examples
are really ones that correspond to y
equals 0 as far as we know and so we
will use this to fit P of X right so we
will use these 6,000 inches to fit P of
X which was that to a P of x1
parametrized by mu 1 Sigma squared 1 up
to P of X and parametrized by mu and
Sigma squared n and so it would be these
6,000 examples that we were used to
estimate the parameters mu 1 Sigma
squared 1 up to mu and Sigma square n so
that's a training set of all you know
good or the vast majority of good
examples next we will take our good
aircraft engines and put some number of
them in the cross-validation sets put
some number of them in tested six
thousand plus two thousand four two
thousand that's how we split up about
10,000
good aircraft engines and then we also
have 20 flawed aircraft engines we'll
take that and maybe split it up you know
put ten of them and across
pretended them in the attest set and in
the next I will talk about how to
actually use this to evaluate to the
anomaly detection algorithm so what I've
just described here is your parada
recommended or pretty good way of
splitting the label and on the apron
example of the good end of fluid
aircraft engines where we use like a
sixty twenty twenty percent split for
the good engines and we take the flawed
engines and we put them just in the
cross validation set and just in the
test at the most feared in the explain
why that's the case just as an aside uh
if you look at how people apply anomaly
detection algorithm sometimes you see
other people split the data differently
as well so another alternative this is
really not recommended alternatives but
some people will take of your ten
thousand to the engines may put six
thousand of them in the training set and
they put the same four thousand in the
cross-validation set in the test set and
so you know we like to think of the
cross-validation set and the test set as
being completely different data sets in
each other but anomaly detection you
know for sometimes you see people it's
like use the same set of good engines
and the cross-validation set and the
test set and sometimes you see people
use exactly the same sets of anomalous
engines the cross-validation set and the
test set and so all of these are
consider you know less good practices
and definitely less recommended
certainly right using the same data and
the cross-validation in the set and the
test set
that's not constantly good machine
learning practice but sometimes you see
people do this too so given the training
cross-validation and test sets
here's how you evaluate so here's how
you develop and evaluate an algorithm
first we take the training set and we
fit the model P of X so we fit new all
those gaussians to my M unlabeled
examples of aircraft engines and these
are I'm calling them unlabeled examples
but these are ready examples that we're
assuming are good or the normal
revengeance then imagine that your
anomaly detection algorithm is actually
making predictions so on the cross
validation test set given a say test
example X think of the algorithm as
predicting that Y is equal to 1 the P of
X is less than Epsilon was predicting 0
the P of X is greater than equal Epsilon
so it's trying to predict given X is
trying to predict what is the label you
know that y equals 1 corresponding to an
anomaly or is it y equals 0
corresponding to a normal to a normal
example so few minute training
cross-validation and test sets how do
you develop an algorithm and more
specifically how do you evaluate an
anomaly detection algorithm well to do
so the first step is to take the
unlabeled training set and to fit the
model P of X to a training data so you
take this you know I'm calling unlabeled
training set but really these are
examples that we were assuming the vast
majority of which are normal aircraft
engines not as they're not anomalies and
will fit the model P of X so fit all
those parameters for all the gaussians
on this data nix on the cross-validation
on the test set we're going to think of
the anomaly detection algorithm as
trying to predict the value of y so in
each of my say test examples we have
these x i tests why i test where y is
going to be equal to 1 or 0 depending on
whether this was an anomalous example so
given any products in my test set my
anomaly detection algorithm think of
that predicting the Y is 1 if P of X is
less than epsilon so predicting that is
an anomaly that it probably is very low
and we think of the algorithm as
predicting that Y is equal to 0 if P of
X was greater than or equal to Epsilon
so predicting does in
all example if the P of X is this
reasonably large and so we can now think
of the anomaly detection algorithm as
making predictions for what are the
values of these Y labels in the test set
or on the cross validation set and this
puts us somewhat most similar to the
supervised learning setting right where
we have like a label test set and our
algorithm is making predictions on these
labels and so we can evaluate it you
know by seeing how often they get these
labels right of course these labels are
alone will be very skewed because y
equals 0 that is normal examples will
you'd be much more common than Y equals
1 then anomalous examples but you know
this is much closer to the source of
evaluation metrics we can use in
supervised learning
so what's a good evaluation metric to
use well because the data because
because the data is very skewed because
y equals zero was much more common
classification accuracy would not be a
good evaluation metric so if we talked
about this in the earlier video so if
you have a very skewed data set then
predicting y equals 0 all the time we
have very high classification accuracy
instead we should use evaluation metrics
like computing the fraction of true
positives false positives false
negatives true negatives a few things
about while computer the precision and
recall of this algorithm to things like
compute e f1 score right what you they
say single real number way of
summarizing the position and the recall
members and so these would be ways to
evaluate an anomaly detection algorithm
on your cross-validation sets or on your
test phase finally earlier in in the
anomaly detection algorithm we also had
this parameter epsilon and so epsilon
was this threshold that we would use to
decide when to flag something as an
anomaly and so if you have a cross
validation set another way that one way
to choose this parameter epsilon would
be to try a different try many different
values of epsilon and then pick the
value of epsilon that let's say
maximizes f1 score that
or that otherwise does well on your
cross-validation set and more generally
the way to use the training testing and
cross-validation sets is that when we're
trying to make decisions like what
features to include or trying to you
know tune the parameter epsilon we would
then continually evaluate the algorithm
on the cross-validation set to make all
those decisions like what features to
use on the set epsilon use that evaluate
the algorithm on the cross-validation
set and then when we've picked a set of
features where we've found the value of
epsilon they were happy work we can then
take the final model and evaluate it you
know do the final evaluation of the
algorithm the test set so in this video
we talked about the process of how to
evaluate an anomaly detection algorithm
and again having been able to evaluate
an algorithm you know with a single real
number evaluation or the number like an
f1 school that often allows you to make
much much more efficient use of your
time when you're trying to develop an
anomaly detection system when we're
trying to make these sorts of decisions
that constitutes epsilon what features
to include and so on in this video we
started to use a bit of label data in
order to evaluate the anomaly detection
algorithm this takes us a little bit
closer to a supervised learning setting
in the next video I'm going to say a bit
more about that and in particular we'll
talk about when should you be using an
anomaly detection algorithm when should
we be thinking about using supervised
learning instead what are the
differences between these two formulas